# VerticalX Recommendation System

VerticalX is an information filtering system that uses Natural Language Processing techniques to make content based recommendations for 10k+ movies based on the users interest. 
The project uses the TMDb dataset. The investigating dataset contains information for over 10,000 movies collected from TMDb. The project is deployed using Heroku app.

The project was developed in March 2022 as a standalone project & has been licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0. All pull requests are maintained by Ashwin. Learn about VerticalX Recommendations System here

# SubDirectories and Constraints
### Dependencies
 - **Website:** StreamLit(front-end), Heroku(back-end), Requests Library (for sending HTTP/1.1 requests in Python)
 - **Machine Learning Model:** Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Natural Language Toolkit, Scikit-Learn, Pickle

### Files and Folders:
- **Assets:** This folder contains the Jupyter notebook for the NLP Model, and other visual resources
- **Data:** This folder contains the dataset used for training the model. It contains 10,000 datapoints
- **Pickle:** This sub-directory contains the serialized python-dump. Similarity.pkl file is not included
- **app.py:** This is the generic entry point for the python application, and contains the source code 
- **Procfile:** This file specifies the commands that are to be executed by the Heroku app on startup

All relevant updates and stable versions are made available in the ~/stableVersion sub-directory. Some subdirectories may be sensitive for the project and may trigger 
review requests, when pull requests touch these files. Github handles with commit rights made available in the 
[~/Template Files/CODEOWNERS](https://github.com/ashwinraj-in/Kiwi/blob/main/Template%20Files/CODEOWNERS) are responsible for reviewing such changes

# User Installation and Source Code
The recommendation model is wrapped in a website, designed using streamlit and hosted over Heroku. The working demo can be found here: [verticalx.herokuapp.com](verticalx.herokuapp.com). 
For the user to run this application on their local workstation, the user must first download all resources, and requirements. To recommend  movies, the users shall  select a movie from the dropdown list, and hit the recommend button. 5 similar movie selections will be recommended by the ml model.

To run the streamlit application on a local computer, open the terminal, install streamlit and then type the command:
```
streamlit run app.py
```
Command may take upto 30 sec before opening the streamlit app on the browser with local url: http://localhost:8501. The working demo of the application hosted over Heroku may sometimes crash with a connection timed out message. This is because the program exceeds Heroku's soft limit for slug size - including
the app and its dependencies

### Directory Structure
VerticalX's development takes place on GitHub. Submit any bugs that you may encounter to the issues tracker with a reproducible example, demonstrating the problem in accordance with the [issue template]() present in contributing files.
    
    ├── procfile
    ├── Assets                         // Contains image graphics and jupyter nbk
    │   └── VerticalXNotebook.ipynb
    ├── README.md                     
    ├── app.py                         // Entry point for the python applications
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.sh
    ├── Pickle                         // Contains serialized pickle python dumps
    │   ├── movies.pkl                    
    │   └── movie_dict.pkl             
    └── Data                           // Listing of all data source in the model
        └── tmdb_movies_data.csv
                             
To run the application, first download the required resources or clone this repository. StreamLit must be pre-installed for this application to work. The files and folders important for this website to run includes: app.py, procfile, setup.sh, pickle-dumps, the  datasets, and the Jupyter notebooks. Similarity.pkl file could not be included in this repository as it exceeds GitHub's file size limit. However, the file can be re-generated by the user while running the Jupyter notebook


### Clone the repository
To start contributing to the project, clone the repository into your local system subdirectory using the below git code:
```
git clone https://github.com/ashwinraj-in/Kiwi.git
```
Before cloning the repository, make sure to navigate to the working subdirectory of your command line interface and ensure that no folder with same name exists. Other ways to clone the repository includes using a password protected SSH key or by using Git CLI. The changes may additionally be performed by opening this repo using GitHub Desktop

### Edit the Source Code and Make Desired Changes
To be able to make changes to the source, you may need to install and use a python IDE such as PyCharm, Microsoft VisualStudio and/or any other python interpreter. You will also require a Jupyter notebook  for working with the code snippets. The movies posters are fetched using the TMDb's API. You may create your own API by logging into TMDb developers API-3. Ensure that you are strictly following the basic coding standards while making the desired change

### Submitting a Pull Request
Before opening a Pull Request, it is recommended to have a look at the full contributing page to make sure your code complies with all the pull request guidelines. Please ensure that you satisfy the [~/checklist](https://github.com/ashwinraj-in/Kiwi/tree/main/Template%20Files/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE) before submitting your PR.

Navigate to this subdirectory & check status of all files that were altered (red) by running the below code in Git Bash:
```
git status
```
Stage all your files that are to be pushed into your pull request. This can be done in two ways - stage all or some files:
```
git add .            // adds every single file that shows up red when running git status
```
```
git add <filename>   // type in the particular file that you would like to add to the PR
```

Commit all the changes that you've made & describe in brief the changes that you have made, using this command:
```
git commit -m "<commit_message>"
```
Push all of your updated work into this GitHub repo in the form of a Pull Request by running the following command:
```
git push origin main
```
All pull requests are reviewed on a monthly rolling basis. Your understanding is appreciate during this review process.

# License and Project Status
VerticalX and all of its resources are distributed under [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/ashwinraj-in/VerticalX/blob/main/LICENSE). The site is compatible with all operating systems. The latest released stable version of VerticalX is v1.0.1, and is available to be used on any local/remote system for general use through the web browsers. All new releases are logged in the [~/Stable Versions](https://github.com/ashwinraj-in/Kiwi/tree/main/stableVersions)

Upcoming updates will include more features, optimized recommendations using tf/idf and faster result predictions
